Author: Saskia van Rijnsoever

This python code was written for the Master of Science Thesis titled "Using fluorescent proteins to encode the colour spectrum into DNA for archiving of digital information."

Abstract:
An estimated average of 2.5 quintillion bytes of digital data are produced daily, and this needs to be stored – either short-term or long-term – to be adequately utilised. Magnetic tape archives currently provide long-term data archiving. However, the data stored on magnetic tapes must be rewritten every decade due to degradation. Additionally, the rapid progression of technology can result in current data storage methods quickly becoming obsolete due to unsupported file formats or hardware obsolescence. DNA provides a promising alternative for archival storage of digital data, as it has high stability. Multiple groups have demonstrated this utility, encoding video, audio, pictures, and text files into DNA. However, the issue of digital obsolescence remains a problem for long term data storage. I aim to create a ‘molecular Rosetta Stone’ to aid DNA archiving. My system permits critical information about data formats to be stored and retrieved because information on how to read the information stored in DNA is integrated. I have linked an artificial code to an RGB (red, green, blue) colour system of fluorescent proteins, enabling me to store 2D image data directly in DNA. This in turns enables me to embed information on formats by explaining, for instance, the relationship between nucleotide sequences and ASCII characters. I describe the steps involved in generating the molecular Rosetta Stone, including screening for suitable fluorescent proteins and the process of artificial code design. My research provides a proof-of-principle design for a fully self-contained DNA archiving system for digital data, adding a critical tool for the application of synthetic DNA for long term digital data archiving.
